# Compilers

I've heard people think of compilers like some sort of magic spell, that they are scary, so I decided to learn how they work, write a bunch of them, and give my final judgment.
I've started this journey reading Crafting Interpreters by Robert Nystrom, and I can say that compilers theory is really interesting. Through my journey I've acquired knowledge not only related to programming, but also to other topics such as how to structure a grammar.

## Purpose and Structure

So how are compilers made? How are they structured? Well, first of all, compilers are software that take some source code and let you run it, whether by outputting an executable or directly running it (though this variant is called an intepreter).
There are mainly 3 parts:

1. **Frontend**  
   The part where the source code is transformed into a structure (like a tree) that is not tied to any real languages but also perfectly represents our original code structure.

2. **Intermediate Representation**  
   In this stage our code representation gets transformed into an intermediate language, not a real one, but a **_fake_** one. Its main purpose is to be able to reuse the frontend with as many backends as you might want; this is needed because the backend is tied to the CPU architecture we are targeting, and without a language tied to no architecture, we would have to create as many frontends as the number of architectures targeted.
   Note that the tree made in the frontend is already an IR (Intermediate Representation); however, it's generally slower and might be missing some information, so it's generally not used a lot.

3. **Backend**  
   And finally, this is the place where our IR gets transformed into machine code and lastly into an executable, and because of this, this stage is tied to the CPU architecture where the compiler is supposed to run on. However, some variants such as transpilers have CPU architecture independent backend.

### Other stages

Of course, there are other stages, and while they are worth mentioning, I do not want to go too in-depth, so we'll stop here.

## Interpreters

So what about interpreters? They don't generate any file, do they not have a backend? Well, they do! but it's a little different; while compilers generally generate output after many translations, an interpreter directly executes code based on the unoptimized IR right after the front end. This is also part of the reason why interpreters are generally slower.

## Summary

Compilers are indeed a bit tricky but they're overall fun and interesting, so if you were interested, or you are now, I suggest starting to learn about them, a great starting point is Crafting Interpreters by Robert Nystrom. Bye!
